README.md, before:

# Assignment 1 – CS-303

Syed Abdul Mateen Shah  
Java  



Program Description

This program reads integers from input.txt into a standard Java array 
(ArrayList is not used).

The program allows the user to:
- Search for a number (returns index)
- Modify a value at a given index
- Add a number to the end of the array
- Remove a number at a given index
- Display the array

Try-catch blocks are used for the modify and add functions as required.



How to Run

Compile:
javac Main.java

Run:
java Main



Screenshots:




Search – Found  
![Search Found](search_found.png)

Search – Not Found  
![Search Not Found](search_not_found.png)

Modify – Valid Index  
![Modify Valid](modify_valid.png)

Modify – Invalid Index (Exception Handling)  
![Modify Invalid](modify_invalid.png)

Add Function  
![Add](add.png)

Remove Function  
![Remove](remove.png)

Display Function  
![Display](display.png)



Challenges Faced

- Making sure the file was in the correct folder so it could be read properly.
- Handling invalid indexes without crashing the program.
- Remembering to shift elements left when removing from a normal array.
- Making sure the array had extra capacity so the add function could be tested.

Commit message:

Report File
Updated README to clarify search functionality and challenges faced.

README.md, after:

# Assignment 1 – CS-303

Syed Abdul Mateen Shah  
Java  



Program Description

This program reads integers from input.txt into a standard Java array 
(ArrayList is not used).

The program allows the user to:
- Search for a number and give its index
- Modify a value at a given index
- Add a number to the end of the array
- Remove a number at a given index
- Display the array

Try-catch blocks are used for the modify and add functions as required.



How to Run

Compile:
javac Main.java

Run:
java Main



Screenshots:




Search – Found  
![Search Found](search_found.png)

Search – Not Found  
![Search Not Found](search_not_found.png)

Modify – Valid Index  
![Modify Valid](modify_valid.png)

Modify – Invalid Index (Exception Handling)  
![Modify Invalid](modify_invalid.png)

Add Function  
![Add](add.png)

Remove Function  
![Remove](remove.png)

Display Function  
![Display](display.png)



Challenges Faced

There werent many challenges I faced in this assignment, only challenge was making sure the remove function correctly shifts elements without
  losing data or causing index errors. Another challenge was bugs but co-pilot helped me in those.
